Bogota – statistics & facts
2,635 meters above sea level rises the city formerly known as Santa Fe de Bogota, founded on August 6th, 1538, by the Spanish colonizers as the capital of the New Kingdom of Granada (currently Colombia and Panama) on the territory of the Muiscas. The two most accepted etymologies suggest that the name Bogota comes from the Chibcha word Bacatá meaning either “wailing of the farmland” or “lady of the shining mountain.” Nowadays, the city still functions as the capital of Colombia and is the most populous in the country with almost three times more inhabitants than the second most populous city, Medellin. With all of this, it is no surprise that Bogota is the Colombian epicenter in most levels and is the cultural, historical, economic, and industrial capital of the country. 

Crime in Bogota
Crime and violence are some of the main problems the Colombian population faces, which is no different in the capital. Bogota recorded the highest perception of insecurity in the country, with almost 78 percent of the inhabitants stating that they felt insecure living there. In concrete terms, Bogota has a victimization rate of 12.2 percent of the inhabitants being victims of a crime, only behind the western department of Pasto. The capital city follows in line with the country's history of drug trafficking, guerrilla warfare, and corruption. To overcome both problems of corruption and crime, the government of the city implemented a new unified information system. The system has been helpful to identify those members of the public security institutions that work with organized crime and also to dismantle criminal organizations. 

Tourism
Despite the high crime rates, its historical relevance and tourist attractions help the city to be the tourist epicenter of Colombia. Either to take a funicular to the top of Serro de Monserrate, be amazed by the Botero or National museums, or simply get lost in the old historical districts, more than six million international and national tourists visited Bogota in 2021. This figure is still half of what was registered before the COVID-19 pandemic. Even though there is still a long way to reclaim its previous levels, the high increase in the last year presents a good recovery sign. In recent years, most tourists have been residents: on average Colombians spend 31 USD per day when visiting the capital, while the average spend of international tourists goes up to 93 USD. 

bogota's population is 8.034.649 million inhabitants in 2024.
